README:

This is GNU Awk 2.14. It should be upwardly compatible with the
System V Release 4 awk.  It is almost completely compliant with draft 11.3
of POSIX 1003.2.

This release is essentially a bug fix release.

See the installation instructions, below.

Known problems are given in the PROBLEMS file.  Work to be done is
described briefly in the FUTURES file.  Verified ports are listed in
the PORTS file.  Changes in this version are summarized in the CHANGES file.
Please read the LIMITATIONS and ACKNOWLEDGMENT files.

To format the documentation, with TeX, you must use texinfo.tex 2.53
or later.  Otherwise footnotes look unacceptable.

If you wish to remake the Info files, you should use makeinfo. The 2.15 
version of makeinfo works with no errors.

The man page is more or less up to date.
If you do not have nroff or troff, you can use `awf' included in
the test suite to format the manual page with only a few small problems.

INSTALLATION:

Makefile.in may need some tailoring.  The only changes necessary should
be to change installation targets or to change compiler flags.
The changes to make in Makefile.in are commented and should be obvious.

All other changes should be made in a config file.  Samples for
various systems are included in the config directory.  Starting with
2.11, our intent has been to make the code conform to standards (ANSI,
POSIX, SVID, in that order) whenever possible, and to not penalize
standard conforming systems.  We have included substitute versions of
routines not universally available.  Simply add the appropriate define
for the missing feature(s) on your system.

If you have neither bison nor yacc, use the awk.tab.c file here.  It was
generated with bison, and should have no AT&T code in it.  (Note that
modifying awk.y without bison or yacc will be difficult, at best.  You might
want to get a copy of bison from the FSF too.)

If no config file is included for your system,  start by copying one
for a similar system.  One way of determining the defines needed is to
try to load gawk with nothing defined and see what routines are
unresolved by the loader.  This should give you a good idea of how to
proceed.  We would like to receive a copy of any new config files.

If you have an MS-DOS system, use the stuff in the pc directory.
For an Atari there is an atari directory and similarly one for VMS.

After successful compilation, do 'make test' to run a small test suite.
There should be no output from the 'cmp' invocations except in the cases
where there are small differences in floating point values.  If there is,
please investigate and report the problem.  More extensive testing can be
invoked with 'make bigtest'.  In this case, some of the test output is system
specific (in particular "regtest").  There are many interesting programs in
the test suite!

PRINTING THE MANUAL

The 'support' directory contains texinfo.tex 2.65, which will be necessary
for printing the manual, and the texindex.c program from the emacs distribution
which is also necessary.  See the makefile for the steps needed to get a
DVI file from the manual.

CAVEATS

The existence of a patchlevel.h file does *N*O*T* imply a commitment on
our part to issue bug fixes or patches.  It is there in case we should
decide to do so.

BUG REPORTS AND FIXES:

Please coordinate changes through David Trueman and/or Arnold Robbins.

David Trueman
Department of Mathematics, Statistics and Computing Science,
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada

UUCP		{uunet utai watmath}!dalcs!david
INTERNET	david@cs.dal.ca

Arnold Robbins
1736 Reindeer Drive
Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA

INTERNET:	arnold@skeeve.atl.ga.us
UUCP:		{ gatech, emory, emoryu1 }!skeeve!arnold
